---
layout: post
title:  "2016 WK21 reading log"
date:   2016-05-22 10:50:56 +0300
categories: blog
---

2016-05-22

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 3: Two Approaches to Learning](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap5GwlN0obhLWJMrUr9cQIEgB4VnNrRUDvo)

Josh is taught by Bruce with end-game

>Rewind to those days when I was a six-year-old prankster. Once he had won my confidence, Bruce begun our study with a barren chess board. We took on positions of reduced complexity and clear principles. Our only focus was king and pawn against king-just three pieces on the table. Over time, I gained an excellent intuitive feel for the power of the king and the subtlety of the pawn.

However, most children were taught with openings

>Most of my early rivals were gifted children, and they were prepared with hundreds of traps with which they could win right off the bat. Playing against these kids was like walking through a minefield, but I was good enough on my feet to navigate most of the danger. I often came out of the openings in a little bit of trouble, but then I took control. As our games progressed, my opponents moved away from their area of comfort while I grew stronger and more confident. They wanted to win before the battle began, but I loved the struggle that was the heart of chess.

Let's look at the difference, for end-game there are very few chess on the board, which can make you understand the power of each chess as well as empty space better. It is less complicated so you can understand more instead of memorizing more. For the opening, it is very complicated situation on board, so you have to try to memorize instead of understanding.


***
<br>


2016-05-22

[The Art of Learning,CHAPTER 4: Loving the Game](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap5w0y_1EcJBpZN_Fc7QWOwtIDYWyPXorEc)

When we try to become growth mindset (as described in the previous chapter), we should avoid to go to the extreme like win and lose doesn't matter at all, or process-first.

>many people in diverse fields take some version of the process-first philosophy and transform it into an excuse for never putting themselves on the line or pretending not to care about results. They claim to be egoless, to care only about learning, but really this is an excuse to avoid confronting themselves.

We need to learn to balance long-term goals and short-term goals.

>While a fixation on results is certainly unhealthy, short-term goals can be useful developmental tools if they are balanced within a nurturing long-term philosophy.

How to face the success of children?

>When he wins a tournament game, the spotlight should be on the road to that moment and beyond as opposed to the glory. On the other hand, it is okay for a child (or an adult for that matter) to enjoy a win. A parent shouldn't be an automaton, denying the obvious emotional moment to spout platitudes about the long-term learning process when her child is jumping up and down with excitement. When we have worked hard and succeed at something, we should be allowed to smell the roses. The key, in my opinion, is to recognize that the beauty of those roses lies in their transience. It is drifting away even as we inhale. We enjoy the win fully while taking a deep breath, then we exhale, note the lesson learned, and move on to the next adventure.

How to face the failure of children?

>I think this mother should give her son a hug, If he is crying, let him cry on her shoulder. She should tell him how proud of him she is. She can tell Danny that it is okay to be sad, that she understands and that she loves him. Disappointment is part of the road to greatness.
>
When a few moments pass, in a quiet voice, she can ask Danny it he knows what happened in the game. Hopefully the language between parent and child will already be established so Danny knows his mum is asking about psychology, not the moves (almost all mistakes have both technical and mental components)
>
Through these dialogues, Danny will learn that every loss is an opportunity for growth. He will become increasingly astute psychologically and sensitive to bad habits.

The key point is that we must try out best and we will not try to avoid the disappointment by cheating ourselves the result doesn't matter.

>The fact of the matter is that there will be nothing learned from any challenge in which we don't try our hardest. Growth comes at the point of resistance. We learn by pushing ourselves and finding what really lies at the outer reaches of our abilities.

***
<br>

2016-05-23

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 5: The Soft Zone](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap7PBFmQajFDvZhYr4waQG7f8W18AkEwfOw)

How to deal with distraction

>In performance training, first we learn to flow with whatever comes. Then we learn to use whatever comes to our advantage. Finally, we learn to be completely self-sufficient and create our own earthquakes, so our mental process feeds itself explosive inspirations without the need for outside stimulus.
>
My idea was to become at peace with distraction, whatever it was.



***
<br>

2016-05-23

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 6: The Downward Spiral](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap4GN9XGlrJH8JHYWfLMxuS0B5e6QMSO__0)

A very subtle emotional change, may cause to the failure. We just have too much **emotional attachment** for everything.

>There is nothing wrong with equality, but you have developed a powerful emotional attachment to being in control of the game. Your heart starts to pound because of the disconcerting chasm between what was and what is.
>
As a competitor I've come to understand that the distance between winning and losing is minute, and, moreover, that there are ways to steal wins from the maw of defeat.
>
I taught them that being present at critical moments of competitions can turn losses into wins, and I conveyed strategies for how to do this. Sometimes all the kids needed was to take two or three deep breaths or splash cold water on their faces to snap out of bad states of mind. Other times, more dramatic actions were called for-if I felt dull during a difficult struggle, I would occasionally leave the playing hall and sprint fifty yards outside. This may have seemed strange to spectators, but it served as a complete physiological flushing, and I returned, albeit a bit sweaty, in a brand-new state of mind.

We should be careful about the ripple effect, avoid make more mistakes after the first mistake. Remember the story of the woman and bike!

>I explained how this woman's first mistake was looking the wrong way and stepping into the street in front of traffic. Maybe wearing headphones put her in her own world, a little removed from the immediacy of the moment. **Then the biker should have been a wake-up call. She wasn't hurt, but instead of reacting with alertness, she was spooked into anger, irritated that her quiet had been shattered.**

***
<br>

2016-05-23

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 7: Changing Voice](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap4n-ZbFOhhIJKs-qe__OvIwCvkLepb_X7k)

Chess and real life

>Once I recognized that deeply buried secrets in a competitor tend to surface under intense pressure, my study of chess became a form of psychoanalysis- I unearthed my subtlest foibles through chess, and the link between my personal and artistic sides was undeniable. The psychological theme could range from transitions to resilient concentration, fluidity of mind, control, leaps into the unknown, sitting with tension, the downward spiral, being at peace with discomfort, giving into fatigue, emotional turbulence, and invariably the chess moves paralleled the life moment. Whenever I noticed a weakness, I took it on.
>
I also studied my opponents closely. Like myself, their psychological nuances in life manifested over the board, I would watch a rival tapping his feet impatiently while waiting for an elevator or carefully maneuvering around his peas on a dinner plate. If someone was a controlling person who liked to calculate everything out before acting, I would make the chess position chaotic, beyond calculation, so he would have to make that uncomfortable leap into the unknown. If an opponent was intuitive, fast, and hungering for abstract creations, I would make the position precise, so the only solution lay in patient, mind-numbing math.


***
<br>

2016-05-24

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 8: Breaking Stallions](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap7UfQI36NdEVKwSmNmq4OYTxZ_2XN_lziw)

If a child has ambition, looks so wonderful...

>I think a life of ambition is like existing on a balance beam. As a child, there is no fear, no sense for the danger of falling. The beam feels wide and stable, and natural playfulness allows for creative leaps and fast learning.
>
While a child can make the beam a playground, high-stress performers often transform the beam into a tightrope.

relationship between ambition and disposition

>I believe that one of the most critical factors in the transition to becoming a conscious high performer is the degree to which your relationship to your pursuit stays in harmony with your unique disposition. There will inevitably be times when we need to try new ideas, release our current knowledge to take in new information-but it is critical to integrate this new information in a manner that does not violate who we are.

***
<br>

2016-05-24

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 9: Beginner's Mind](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap4KzEC25MpO2Yd8avcWj3uiGtxK0tTyunY)

It looks like Tai Chi and meditation have many in common

>A huge element of Tai Chi is releasing obstructions so the body and mind can flow smoothly together. If there is tension in one place, the mind stops there, and the fluidity is broken.
>
A key movement at this stage of my Tai Chi learning experience was the coordination of breath and mind. This relationship is a critical component of Tai Chi Chuan and I think it's important to take a moment to explain. Many Chinese martial arts masters impose a forced, old-school breathing method on their students. The idea is that a particular art has created a superior method of breath control and this method should be followed religiously. William Chens humble vision of this issue is that breathing should be natural- Or, more accurately, breathing should be a return to what was natural before we got stressed out by years of running around a hectic world and internalizing bad habits.

***
<br>

2016-05-24

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 10: Investment in Loss](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap41CRfH25ZH77g3-9-KkaiVqJbe11hG1sU)

Repeat the errors again and again until we learn not to make it any longer.

>I have long believed that if a student of virtually any discipline could avoid ever repeating the same mistake twice-both technical and psychological-he or she would skyrocket on the top of their field. Of course such a feat is impossible-we are bound to repeat thematic errors, if only because many themes are elusive and difficult to pinpoint.
>
So the aim is to minimise repetition as much as possible, by having an eye for consistent psychological and technical themes of error.

Tai Chi

>With practice, the stillness is increasingly profound and the transition into motion can be quite explosive-this is where the dynamic pushing or striking power of Tai Chi emerges: the radical change from emptiness into fullness. When delivering force, the feeling inside the body is of the ground connecting to your fingertips, with nothing blocking this communication. Highly skilled Tai Chi practitioners are incredibly fast, fluid, responsive-in a sense, the embodiment of Muhammad Ali's "Float like a butterfly, sting like a bee."

ego is the largest enemy of self-improvement

>For his part, Evan was big and strong, and to an inexperienced martial artist he was terrifying, but his forceful approach held him back from internalizing some of the more subtle elements of the art. Most critically, Evan was unwilling to invest in loss himself. He could have taken my improvement as a chance to raise his game, but instead he opted out.

the greatness of Jordan, he can sustain the cost of defeat

>Consider Michael Jordan. It is common knowledge that Jordan made more last-minute shots to win the game for his team than any other player in the history of the NBA. What is not so well known, is that Jordan also missed more last-minute shots to lose the game for his team than any other player in the history of the game. **What made him the greatest was not perfection, but a willingness to put himself on the line as a way of life.** Did he suffer all those nights when he sent twenty thousand Bulls Fans home heartbroken? Of course. But he was willing to look bad on the road to basketball immortality.

***
<br>

2016-05-24

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 11: Making Smaller Circles](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap6_zQ0umiFOO7f3aqdRh0_4n5aizQ9_ZSs)

Our obstacle of deep learning

>I believe this little anecdote has the potential to distinguish success from failure in the pursuit of excellence. The scheme is depth over breadth. The learning principle is to plunge into the detailed mystery of the micro in order to **understand what makes the macro tick**. Our obstacle is that we live in an attention-deficit culture. We are bombarded with more and more information on television, radio, cell phones, video games, the Internet. The constant supply of stimulus has the potential to turn us into addicts, always hungering for something new and prefabricated to keep us entertained. When nothing exciting is going on, we might get bored, distracted, separated from the moment. So we look for new entertainment, surf channels, flip through magazines. If caught in these rhythms, we are like tiny current-bound surface fish, floating along a two-dimensional world without any sense for the gorgeous abyss below. When these societally induced tendencies translate into the learning process, they have devastating effect.

refine/hone

>From very early on, I felt that the moving meditation of Tai Chi Chuan has the primary martial purpose of allowing practitioners to refine certain fundamental principles. (for example: shifting weight by releasing the hip joints; ever-deepening relaxation; the coordination of mind, breath, and body; awareness of internal energies; winding up to deliver a strike; coiling incoming force down into the ground; rooting; emptying one part of the body while energizing another.) Many of them can be explored by standing up, taking a stance, and incrementally refining the simplest of movements-for example pushing your hands six inches through the air with the practice of this type of simplified motion you can feel the subtlest ripples inside the body. You become aware of all the tension that resides in your feet, legs, back, and shoulders. Then you release the tension, step by step, hour by hour, month by month, and with the fading of tension comes a whole new world of sensation. You learn to direct your awareness inside the body, and soon enough your fingers come alive with tingling, you feel heat surging up your back and through your arms. The Tai Chi system can be seen as a comprehensive laboratory for internalizing good fundamentals, releasing tension, and cultivating energetic awareness.
>
When through painstaking refinement of a small movement I had the improved feeling, I could translate it onto other parts of the form and suddenly everything would start flowing at a higher level. The key was to recognize that the principles making one simple technique tick were the same fundamentals that fueled the whole expansive system of Tai Chi Chuan.

real martial article

>When skilled martial artists face off, it is very different from choreographed Hollywood fight scenes. High-level practitioners rarely **overextend**, and they know how to read incoming attacks. Large fancy movements like cinematic spinning back-kicks usually don't work. They are too telegraphed and take too long to reach the target. A boxing jab is much more effective because it covers little distance, its quick, and its fundamentally sound.

another reference: [习练七年传统武术获得的一些成长概念](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzAxNzI4MTMwMw==&mid=402934832&idx=1&sn=c4d3d5ba54d8e7c41e66c2444da82b09)

>冷兵器时代上阵杀敌都是手里拿兵器，刀尖儿扎进胸口，都能置人死地。没有说像擂台赛那样，扣个分就完事儿的。所以说传统武术不太讲抗击打。传统武术，也不拼力气，战场上情况太复杂了，没那么多时间拼力气。就像电影里两个人、两把刀杠在一起，一会我把刀压在你身上，一会你把慢慢把刀压回到我身上.......要是这样磨磨蹭蹭的，那早被人从后面捅死了。
>
传统武术追求的，是几秒钟内解决战斗。战场情况再复杂，也可以通过步法变换，从容地占取最佳攻击位置，迅速让敌人丧失战斗力。这需要长期训练，专业词儿叫“懂劲”。
>
打个比方来说明，这很像是猫科动物与草食动物之间的区别。大家可以认真回想一下，动物世界里的一些镜头，会发现，猫科动物在狩猎时，都是寻找侧面进攻机会，从最匪夷所思的角度咬到猎物的喉咙；而草食动物打架的方式，主要是正面顶在一起。那么，现代擂台赛技术，大多数草食动物打架；而传统武术，更像是猫科动物狩猎。

subtle internalization and refinement

>players tend to get attached to fancy techniques and fail to recognize that subtle internalization and refinement is much more important than the quantity of what is learned.
>
The fact is that when there is intense competition, those who succeed have slightly more honed skills than the rest. It is rarely a mysterious technique that drives us to the top, but rather a profound mastery of what may well be a basic skill set. Depth beats breadth any day of the week, because it opens a channel for the intangible, unconscious, creative components of our hidden potential.

***
<br>

2016-05-24

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 12: Using Adversity](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap5l4cFd50ZNfZRm2fdcfnOfptxyxL0_06c)

win the advantage with one hand

>This new perspective opened up a whole new vision of martial intercourse, I realized that whenever I could control two of his limbs with one of mine, I could easily use my unoccupied arm for free-pickings. Today, techniques around this idea are a staple in my competitive martial style. If even for a blink of an eye you can control two of the other guys limbs with one of yours, either with angle or timing or some sort of clinch, then the opponent is in grave danger. The free hand can take him apart. This principle applies to nearly all contact sports: basketball, football, soccer, wrestling, hockey, boxing, you name it. On the chessboard it is also relevant. Any moment that one piece can control, inhibit, or tie down two or more pieces, a potentially critical imbalance is created on the rest of the board. On a deeper level, this principle can be applied psychologically whenever opposing forces dash. Whether speaking of a corporate negotiation, a legal battle, or even war itself, if the opponent is temporarily tied down qualitatively or energetically more than you are expending to tie it down, you have a large advantage. The key is to master the technical skills appropriate for applying this idea to your area of focus.

visualization practice

>I had an idea that I might be able to keep my right side strong by intense visualization practice. My method was as follows: I did a daily resistance workout routine (in my left side, and after every set I visualized the workout passing to the muscles on the right. My arm was in a cast, so there was no actual motion possible--but I could feel the energy flowing into the unused muscles. I admit it was a shot in the dark, but it worked. My whole body felt strong, and when the doctor finally took off my cast he was stunned. Four days before the Nationals an X-ray showed that my bone was fully healed, and I had hardly atrophied at all.

how to face the injury if you want to be great

>In my martial arts life, every time I tweak my body, well-intended people like my mother suggest I take a few weeks off training. What they don't realize is that if I were to stop training whenever something hurt, I would spend my whole year on the couch. Almost without exception, I am back on the mats the next day, figuring out how to use my new situation to heighten elements of my game. If I want to be the best, I have to take risks others would avoid, always optimizing the learning potential of the moment and turning adversity to my advantage. That said, there are times when the body needs to heal, but those are ripe opportunities to deepen the mental, technical, internal side of my game.

***
<br>

2016-05-25

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 13: Slowing Down Time](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap44dw6iJVZFyKBdlw0ZmooGLx30XhFeTCs)

Network of interconnected knowledge

>For much of this book I have described my vision of the road to mastery-you start with the fundamentals, get a solid foundation fueled by understanding the principles of your discipline, then you expand and refine your repertoire, guided by your individual predispositions, while keeping in touch, however abstractly, with what you feel to be the essential core of the art. **What results is a network of deeply internalized, interconnected knowledge that expands from a central, personal focus point.** The question of intuition relates to how that network is navigated and used as fuel for creative insight.

Remind me how Zhang Sanfeng taught Zhang Wuji

>**Soon enough, learning becomes unlearning.** The stronger chess player is often the one who is less attached to a dogmatic interpretation of the principles. This leads to a whole new layer of principles-those that consist of the exceptions to the initial principles.
>
Everyone at a high level has a huge amount of chess understanding, and much of **what separates the great from the very good is deep presence, relaxation of the conscious mind, which allows the unconscious to flow unhindered.** This is a nuanced and largely misunderstood state of mind that when refined involves a subtle reintegration of the conscious mind into a free-flowing unconscious process. The idea is to shift the primary role from the conscious to the unconscious without blissing out and losing the precision the conscious can provide.

amazing skills

>In time, each step of the technique has expanded in my mind in more and more detail. The slightest variations in the way my opponent responds to my first push will lead to numerous options in the way I will trigger into the throw. My pull on his right wrist will involve twenty or thirty subtle details with which I will vary my action based on his nuanced microresponses. As I sit back on the ground and trip his right foot, my perception of the moment might involve thirty or forty variations.

slow down

>The similarity is that a life-or-death scenario kicks the human mind into a very narrow area of focus. Time feels slowed down because we instinctively zero in on a tiny amount of critical information that our processor can then break down as if it is in a huge font. The trained version of this state of mind shares that tiny area of conscious focus. The difference is that, in our disciplines of choice, we cultivate this experience by converting all the other surrounding information into unconsciously integrated data instead of ignoring it.

***
<br>

2016-05-25

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 14: The Illusion of the Mystical](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap6mKBKlbuRL-aPGCkKrvWT6aE--0L3XEDg)

the ruse of salesman, especially real estate agent

>Real estate moguls furrow their brows, act impatient, check their watches to lull buyers into nervous offers.


***
<br>

2016-05-26

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 15: The Power of Presence](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap7olPBINCpKe5TpkDI8gj60YCiygkKdSy8)

We need to get used to imperfection and chaos, which also means discomfort

>I loved the unknown, the questions, and they wanted answers. When there were no answers, I was home and they were terrified. The game was mine.
>
Grandmasters know how to make the subtlest cracks decisive. The only thing to do was become immune to the pain, embrace it, until I could work through hours of mind-numbing complexities as if I were taking a lovely walk in the park. The vise, after all, was only in my head. I spent years working on this issue, learning how to maintain the tension-becoming at peace with mounting pressure. Then, as a martial artist, I turned this training to my advantage, making my opponents explode from mental combustion because of my higher threshold for discomfort.
>
In every discipline, the ability to be clearheaded, present, cool under fire is much of what separates the best from the mediocre.
>
Those who excel are those who maximize each moment's creative potential-for these masters of living, presence to the day-to-day learning process is akin to that purity of focus others dream of achieving in rare climactic moments when everything is on the line.

***
<br>

2016-05-26

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 16: Searching for the Zone](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap44shMc8etONa7psb1QycRmMnpqhoUVlTQ)

about the rest, relax and recovery

>The notion that I didn't have to hold myself in a state of feverish concentration every second of a chess game was a huge liberation.

What a pity I haven't practiced the principles which I should have learnt from this book, about HITT

>Interval work is a critical building block to becoming a consistent long-term performer.

***
<br>

2016-05-26

[The Art of Learning, CHAPTER 17: Building Your Trigger](https://www.evernote.com/l/Ap6YZZi6x-pKI5H42RLg45OQaaZrNu_ZPO0)

about meditation

>The return to breath is the key to this form of meditation. There is no doing badly or well, just being with your breath, releasing your thoughts when you notice them, and coming back to breach, I highly recommend such techniques. Not only is the return to breath a glimmer of the zone-a moment of undistracted presence- but the ebb and flow of the experience is another form of stress and recovery training. Finally, if there is nothing in your life that feels serene, meditation is the perfect hobby to help you discover a launching point in your search for a personalized routine.

create your own routine as a trigger of serene state, then transplant it!

>The next step in the process is the critical one: after he had fully internalized his routine, I suggested that he do it the morning before going to an important meeting. So Dennis **transplanted his routine from a prelude to playing catch with his son to a prelude to work**. He did so and came back raving that he found himself in a totally serene state in what was normally a stressful environment. He had no trouble being fully present throughout the meeting.

reduce the routine of trigger gradually

>The next step of the process is to gradually alter the routine so that it is similar enough so as to have the same physiological effect, but slightly different so as to make the "trigger" both lower-maintenance and more flexible. The key is to make the changes incrementally, slowly, so there is more similarity than difference from the last version of the routine. This way the body and mind have the same physiological reaction even if the preparation is slightly shorter.
>
Over the course of many months, utilizing the incremental approach of small changes, **I trained myself to be completely prepared after a deep inhalation and release**. I also learned to do the form in my mind without moving at all. The visualization proved almost as powerful as the real thing.
>
But far more critical than these rare climactic explosions, I believe that this type of condensing practice can do wonders to raise our quality of life. **Once a simple inhalation can trigger a state of tremendous alertness, our moment-to-moment awareness becomes blissful**, like that of someone half-blind who puts on glasses for the first time.

live in the presence!

>We see more as we walk down the street. The everyday becomes exquisitely beautiful. The notion of boredom becomes alien and absurd as we naturally soak in the lovely subtleties of the "banal." All experiences become richly intertwined by our new vision, and then new connections begin to emerge. Rainwater streaming on a city pavement will teach a pianist how to flow. A leaf gliding easily with the wind will teach a controller how to let go. A housecat will teach me how to move. All moments become each moment. This book is about learning and performance, but it is also about my life. Presence has taught me how to live.

***
<br>



***
<br>







***
<br>





***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>



***
<br>







***
<br>





***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>



***
<br>







***
<br>





***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>



***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>



***
<br>







***
<br>





***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>



***
<br>







***
<br>





***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>



***
<br>







***
<br>





***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>






***
<br>






***
<br>







***
<br>
