---
layout: post
title:  "The Implementation of Final Plan"
date:   2016-03-21 14:43:20 +0300
categories: blog
---

2016-03-21

Yesterday is the first day of Implementation of final plan, however, it was a totally disaster, which made me very depressed. The main content of my final plan includes 4 hrs' listening and 1 hr's shadow, which requires 5 hrs' focused time. Actually the maximum focused time of one week, is 37 hrs, which means I will have put all my focused time on this plan and can not do anything else. And I don't want to do this in my working hour (8-5), when I want to do some other focused things. How can I achieve my goal?

2016-03-22

Yesterday I did better, at least I finished 45 minutes' shadow, which I think is more important than pure listening because I also need to read aloud.

2016-03-23

Yesterday even better, I was walking along the alley around the lake and was listening to the sinica podcast for more than 1 hrs.

2016-03-24

Yesterday even better, the only regret is that after the shower, I should take the small mp3 upstairs and continued listening to podcast. Instead, I browsed in Quora.

Another progress was that I recorded my own mp3 and listened it before sleeping, what a terrible pronunciation, there is a long long way to go...

Also I found a big problem, which is that listening to my own English seems not able to make my neurons fire! I just felt dumb when I heard my own voice and can not understand what I am talking about. It is really  weird.

2016-03-26

For Thursday, because I went to play soccer, I haven't listened to the sinica podcast. For Friday, I failed again. The only useful thing is that I found more material which can be used to listen, including the audiobook in [audible](www.audible.com) and Audio Drama like in [BBC](http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes). The only problem is time.
