---
layout: post
title:  "Final Plan"
date:   2016-03-18 20:28:45 +0300
categories: blog
---

2016-03-18

Although I named this article "final plan", it doesn't mean that I will give up if this plan doesn't take any effect. For so many years, I have been striving to improve my English to near-native level (the highest level one can get if he/she doesn't master the second language during the language critical period, usually before puberty). Now I understand what the problem is. It is not because I missed my language critical period, for huge amount of person have acquired the second language after the critical period. According to the neuroplasticity theory, our brains are plastic and have the capability to learn anything in any period of our lives. The only issue is that this kind of plasticity is competitive plasticity, which neurons for different activities will fight each other thus the most powerful neuron will inhibit the less powerful one. Therefore, for adults who want to acquire second language, they have to face the competition with their native language. That's why we need a linguistic environment which we can immerse ourselves in the second language and don't have the opportunities to use native language. I guess this factor is more serious for me, because I have being using Chinese for intense reading as well as writing, much more than the average.

However, after I have lived abroad for almost two years, I haven't got the results I expected. The reason is quite simple: I just met a fake linguistic environment. Let's look at a typical situation of a Chinese student who studies abroad. Maybe his previous level is not so good enough to study in the university without difficulty. The first challenge he will have to face is understanding what the professor talks about in the class. At first, he also will struggle for some time. However, this is the best opportunity for him to quickly improve his listening. According to the second language acquisition theory of Prof. krashen, the most important factor for a good linguistic environment is call 'i+1' (input hypothesis), meaning that learners progress in their knowledge of the language when they comprehend language input that is slightly more advanced than their current level. Krashen called this level of input "i+1", where "i" is the learner's interlanguage and "+1" is the next stage of language acquisition. In the class, the student will have a lot of input, but these inputs are not random, they are all about one specified topic and the vocabularies are also with certain range. For a student who majors this topic, it will not be too difficult for him therefore this is a perfect i+1 environment. And he has to accept an extremely intense auditory input almost everyday, so he will soon get used to this class and improve his listening. I, on the other hand, don't have this kind of chance to get intense input, that's why I call it fake environment. The only way to solve this problem is create my own environment, although I can not get enough input, at least I need not to face the Chinese linguistic environment which I can not avoid before.

What I am going to do is, giving myself enough intense input. I plan to listen to the podcast 4 hours per day for the next 6 months. Also I will try to avoid random input from various fields, as well as make this process less painful, so I will mainly listen to the content related to soccer, my favorite hobby. At the same time, I will try to avoid reading and writing Chinese, reducing the competition for brain. Why I put so much emphasis on listening? Actually this is the most ignored factor in the current second language educational system of China: I am saying that the grammar is not important, nor is the reading or writing, but the listening is the basic of all these above. Just think about how we learned our native language: at the first few years, or the so called critical period, we can not speak, not mention read or write, the only thing we can do everyday is to listen. A criterion to differentiate if a word is active or passive for me is that if I can speak it out without seeing it. For example, anotomical, when I read it in an article I can understand it, also I can remember there is a word like this when I need to use it, However, I can not speak it out directly because I am not familiar with its prononciation! This is because I has not listened enough!

The detail of my final plan includes the following list:

1) 4 hours' auditory input per day

2) read only English book/articles if possible

3) write articles in English if possible

4) shadow 1 hour per day

5) everytime I meet a new vocabulary, I add one star in the EuDic, and I must remember a word if it reaches five stars.

I will monitor the execution of my plan according to my weekly statistics.

2016-03-20

I am a little confused about the auditory input, should I 100% concentrate on it?
